![Programming an RFDuino with the breakout](http://ssfrr.github.io/ftsh_breakout/rfduino_breadboard.jpg)

ftsh_breakout
=============

This is a breakout board to connect a [J-Link LITE
CortexM-9](https://segger.com/jlink-lite-cortexm.html) to a breadboard.

Specifically it breaks out the SWDIO and SWCLK pins on the 9-pin Samtec
FTSH-105-01-L-DV-K header to a 5-pin 0.100" header you can plug into a
breadboard. The pins are ordered so you can place it right next to an
[RFDuino](http://www.rfduino.com/) and program the Nordic chip directly,
bypassing the Arduino environment.

*WARNING: There's no going back once you've erased the RFDuino bootloader. From
then on you will need to program it directly using the J-Link (or through your
own bootloader if you write one.*

I designed the board in [KiCad](http://www.kicad.org/), so you'll find here
the project files, as well as the exported Gerbers and GCode files that you can
use to mill the boards.

*I make no guarantees as to the suitibility or quality of these files, and
particularly you should check over the GCode files to make sure the settings
are good for your particular milling machine.*


From Gerber to PCB
------------------

Mostly this project was a chance to get a smooth workflow together for milling
PCBs, so I want to document here what I did. This isn't a schematic capture or
PCB layout tutorial, so I'll assume you have designed a board that you now want
to mill. Any PCB layout software can export gerbers, so that will be our
starting point.

### Get pcb2gcode

There's a bug with the released version of
[pcb2gcode](http://sourceforge.net/projects/pcb2gcode/) where multi-pass path
generation seems to use too-small a bounding box, so the outside of traces near
the edge don't get enough clearance. You can download my fork from
[Github](https://github.com/ssfrr/pcb2gcode) until the fix gets merged into
master.

### Check the Makefile

This project has a makefile that will generate g-code using pcb2gcode. I
encourage you to copy this Makefile, tweak the values, and incorporate it into
your own project. The main values that should change project-to-project are all
defined at the top of the Makefile. You should check the settings within the
individual target rules to make sure they're OK for your machine.

The drill file handling is set up to mill out holes if they're larger than your
milling head. We typically use a 1/32" milling head for cutting board outlines
and holes, which is a fine diameter for a lot of through-hole components like
resistors, but is too small for larger components like header pins. This
setting makes it really easy to mill out larger holes automatically, using the
diameters listed in your drill file.

### Run `make`

This should get you front.ngc, outline.ngc, and drill.ngc, which you can feed into
your CNC running software of choice.

### Check the gcode

I use [OpenSCAM](http://openscam.com/), which is a great open-source gcode
viewer that even simulates what the end product will look like after the
milling is complete. The file `ftsh_breakout_openscam.xml` is a project file
that includes our gcode files and tool sizes, so you see what the end product
will look like.

![The result gcode in OpenSCAM](http://ssfrr.github.io/ftsh_breakout/openscam_board.png)

### Mill It!

Load each gcode file into Mach3, attach the correct milling head, and go to town.

*NOTE: Make sure you start the spindle on your CNC before running the gcode for
the drill file! It seems that the generated gcode doesn't have the `M3` command
that actually starts the spindle, so you run the risk of running a stationary
bit into your PCB, which is basically guaranteed to break the bit.*
